Dear %s,

Congratulations on your new NSF Arctic Sciences award %s %s.

The NSF-funded Arctic Data Center (https://arcticdata.io/) support team is passionate about Arctic science. We are here to support researchers like yourself in storing and sharing valuable data.

We are contacting you today because projects funded by the NSF ARC Arctic Observing Network (AON) program have specific requirements for data and metadata storage. The Arctic Data Center is a long-lived, publicly accessible archive that was created to help researchers meet the NSF data and metadata storage requirements.

At this time, please note that NSF requires all metadata created during your project be submitted to a national data center or another long-lived, publicly accessible archive within two years of collection or before the end of your award, whichever comes first. Additionally, data and derived data products are required to be submitted within 6 months of collection. More detailed information about what will be expected of you can be found at https://arcticdata.io/submit/#who-must-submit.

With these requirements in mind, we strongly recommend that you plan to keep detailed and well-documented data and metadata records throughout your project. Our data submission guidelines page (https://arcticdata.io/submit/) outlines what we look for in submissions to the Arctic Data Center.

If your research will involve large submissions of a total size of 500MB or more please get in touch with us so we can plan for those datasets.

We also wanted to bring your attention to the Data Portals feature. Data portals enable related datasets, such as those that are part of a larger research project or organization, to be discovered together. Here is an example page that we created for the Distributed Biological Observatory: https://arcticdata.io/catalog/portals/DBO. If you are interested in creating a portal for your datasets, this can be made at: [PUT IN THE LINK TO CREATING A PORTAL].

Please note that for AON program projects, NSF requires that:
    - Real-time data be made publicly available immediately. If there is any question about what constitutes real-time data, please contact the appropriate NSF program officer.
    - All data be submitted to a national data center or another long-lived, publicly accessible archive within 6 months of collection, and be fully quality controlled.
    - All data sets and derived data products be accompanied by a metadata profile and full documentation that allows the data to be properly interpreted and used by other researchers.

If you have any questions about the Arctic Data Center or NSF requirements, please reply to this email and we will respond as soon as possible. We will also contact you again near the end of your award with reminders about the data submission requirements.

Good luck on your research!

The Arctic Data Center Support Team
