Dear %s,
  Congratulations on your new NSF Arctic Sciences award %s %s. 
  
  My name is %s. I am from the NSF funded Arctic Data Center (https://arcticdata.io/). At the Arctic Data Center, we are passionate about Arctic data and excited researchers like yourself are collecting important data in such critical environments. We are here to support researchers like yourself store and share your valuable data. 
  
  I am specifically contacting you today because Arctic Sciences funded projects have specific requirements for data and metadata storage set by NSF. The Arctic Data Center is a long-lived, publicly accessible archive that was created to help researchers like yourself meet the NSF data and metadata storage requirements.
  
  It is important at this time you note that NSF requires that all metadata you create during your project be submitted to a national data center or another long-lived, publicly accessible archive within two years of collection or before the end of your award, whichever comes first. Additionally, data and derived data products are often required to be submitted on that same timeframe (although the timing and submission requirements for data varies between programs). More detailed information about what will be expected of you can be found here https://arcticdata.io/submit/#who-must-submit-. 
  
  With these requirements in mind, it is strongly recommended that you plan to keep detailed and well-documented data and metadata records during your project. Typically strong researchers like yourself already do a great job of collecting data and metadata, but you will want to ensure your data and metadata are collected in a manner that can be easily accessed and understood by other researchers after it is published. I recommended you visit our data submission guidelines page (https://arcticdata.io/submit/) to get a better understanding of what is expected for submissions to the Arctic Data Center.
  
  If you have any questions about the Arctic Data Center or NSF requirements, please reply to this email and someone from the Arctic Data Center will respond ASAP. We will also contact you again near the end of your award to help ensure you are meeting NSF requirements.
  
  Good luck on your research!
  %s
