Dear %s,

Congratulations on your new NSF Arctic Sciences award %s %s.

The NSF-funded Arctic Data Center (https://arcticdata.io/) support team is passionate about Arctic science. We are here to support researchers like yourself in storing and sharing valuable data.

We are contacting you today because projects funded by the NSF ARC Arctic Social Sciences Program (ASSP) have specific requirements for data and metadata storage. The Arctic Data Center is a long-lived, publicly accessible archive that was created to help researchers meet the NSF data and metadata storage requirements.

At this time, please note that NSF requires all metadata created during your project be submitted to a national data center or another long-lived, publicly accessible archive within two years of collection or before the end of your award, whichever comes first. More detailed information about what will be expected of you can be found at https://arcticdata.io/submit/#who-must-submit.

With these requirements in mind, we strongly recommend that you plan to keep detailed and well-documented data and metadata records throughout your project. For best practices, the "Organizing Your Data" section (https://arcticdata.io/submit/#organizing-your-data) provides some guidelines.

Please note that NSF policies include special exceptions for ASSP awards and other awards that contain sensitive data, including human subjects data and data that are governed by an Institutional Review Board policy. These special conditions exist for sharing social science data that are ethically or legally sensitive or at risk of decontextualization. In these cases, NSF has requested that a metadata record be created to document non-sensitive aspects of the project and data, including the title, contact information for the data set creators and contacts, and an abstract and methods description summarizing the data collection methodologies that does not include any sensitive information nor data.

If your research will involve large submissions (a total size of 500MB or more), please get in touch with us so we can create a plan together for those datasets.

We also wanted to highlight the data portals feature at the Arctic Data Center. If your project involves multiple related datasets, such as those that are part of a larger research project or organization, a data portal can allow datasets to be discovered together. Here is an example page that we created for the Distributed Biological Observatory: https://arcticdata.io/catalog/portals/DBO. More information on how to create a data portal can be found at: https://arcticdata.io/data-portals/.

If you have any questions about the Arctic Data Center or NSF requirements, please reply to this email and we will respond as soon as possible.

Good luck on your research!

The Arctic Data Center Support Team
