Dear %s,

Congratulations on your new NSF Arctic Sciences award %s %s.

The NSF-funded Arctic Data Center (https://arcticdata.io/) support team is passionate about Arctic science. We are here to support researchers like yourself in storing and sharing valuable data.

We are contacting you today because projects funded by the NSF Arctic Sciences Section have specific requirements for data and metadata storage. The Arctic Data Center is a long-lived, publicly accessible archive that was created to help researchers meet the NSF data and metadata storage requirements.

At this time, please note that NSF requires all metadata created during your project be submitted to a national data center or another long-lived, publicly accessible archive within two years of collection or before the end of your award, whichever comes first. Additionally, data and derived data products are often required to be submitted on that same timeframe (although the timing and submission requirements for data varies between programs). More detailed information about what will be expected can be found at https://arcticdata.io/submit/#who-must-submit.

With these requirements in mind, we strongly recommend that you plan to keep detailed and well-documented data and metadata records throughout your project. Our data submission guidelines page (https://arcticdata.io/submit/) outlines what we look for in submissions to the Arctic Data Center.

If your research will involve large submissions of a total size of 500MB or more please get in touch with us so we can plan for those datasets.

We also wanted to bring your attention to the Data Portals feature. Data portals enable related datasets, such as those that are part of a larger research project or organization, to be discovered together. Here is an example page that we created for the Distributed Biological Observatory: https://arcticdata.io/catalog/portals/DBO. If you are interested in creating a portal for your datasets, this can be made at: [PUT IN THE LINK TO CREATING A PORTAL].

If you have any questions about the Arctic Data Center or NSF requirements, please reply to this email and we will respond as soon as possible.

Good luck on your research!

The Arctic Data Center Support Team
